# Python Variables

In Python, variables are used to store data values. Unlike some other programming languages, Python has no command for declaring a variable: a variable is created the moment you first assign a value to it. Variables in Python are also dynamic, meaning you can reassign them to store different data types.

### Basic Rules for Python Variables:

1. **Variable Names:**
   - Must start with a letter or an underscore `_`.
   - Can only contain letters, numbers, and underscores (A-z, 0-9, and _ ).
   - Are case-sensitive (`age`, `Age`, and `AGE` are three different variables).

2. **Assignment:** 
   - Use the equals sign `=` for variable assignments.
   - Example: `x = 5`, `y = "Hello, World!"`

3. **Dynamic Typing:** 
   - Python allows you to reassign variables to different data types.
   - Example: `x = 4` then `x = "Sally"`

4. **Multi-assignment:** 
   - Python allows you to assign values to multiple variables in one line.
   - Example: `x, y, z = "Orange", "Banana", "Cherry"`

5. **Unpacking a Collection:**
   - If you have a collection of values in a list, tuple, etc., Python allows you extract the values into variables.
   - Example: `fruits = ["apple", "banana", "cherry"]`, then `x, y, z = fruits`

6. **Global Variables:**
   - Variables created outside of a function are known as global variables.
   - Global variables can be used by everyone, both inside and outside of functions.

7. **Local Variables:**
   - If a variable is created inside a function, it can only be used within that function. These are called local variables.

8. **Global Keyword:**
   - If you need to create a global variable, but are stuck in the local scope, you can use the `global` keyword.

### Examples:

```python
x = 5
y = "Hello, World"
print(x)
print(y)

x = x + 1
print(x)  # x is now 6

def myfunc():
    z = 10  # local variable
    print(z)

myfunc()
# print(z)  # This would be an error since z is local to the function myfunc
```

In Python, the concept of variables is straightforward and doesn't require explicit declaration, 
making it more flexible and user-friendly.
